+++
title = "Delivery Truck"

draft = false
[menu]
  [menu.automate]
    title = "Delivery Truck"
    parent = "automate/workflow"
    identifier = "automate/workflow/delivery_truck.md Delivery Truck"
    weight = 30
+++

[\[edit on GitHub\]](https://github.com/chef/automate/blob/master/components/docs-chef-io/content/automate/delivery_truck.md)

Workflow is a legacy feature for Chef Automate, which was designed for managing changes to both infrastructure and application code, giving your operations and development teams a common platform for developing, testing, and deploying cookbooks, applications, and more.

{{< warning >}}
Workflow is available in Chef Automate for existing users. If you are not already using Workflow, but are interested in the solution it offers, please contact your sales or success representative for support with continuous integration pipelines.
{{< /warning >}}

**delivery-truck** is a cookbook for Chef Automate that should be a dependency of every recipe in a **build-cookbook**, which is effectively a project-specific wrapper cookbook for the **delivery-truck** cookbook.
The **delivery-truck** cookbook defines a set of recipes that correspond to the phases and stages in the Chef Automate pipeline and help ensure good default **build-cookbook** behavior. Chef recommends including the **delivery-truck** cookbook in all recipes in a **build-cookbook**.

## 'delivery-truck' Recipes

The following recipes are available by default in the **delivery-truck**
cookbook:

default.rb
: Use the **default.rb** recipe to configure a project on a build node. This recipe is run by the Chef Infra Client as the root user and is a standard default recipe. The Chef Infra Client may use this recipe to configure this project on any node, whether or not it's part of a Chef Automate pipeline.

deploy.rb
: Use the **deploy.rb** recipe to define how artifacts are published to one (or more) nodes after they are built successfully. The contents of this recipe are project-specific.

functional.rb
: Use the **functional.rb** recipe to run a set functional tests that are specific to this project. The tests are run on a single build node and should target and/or trigger tests against the set of nodes that are updated when this artifact deploys.

lint.rb
: Use the **lint.rb** recipe to run linting and other static analysis tools against a project's source code.

provision.rb
: Use the **provision.rb** recipe to build any infrastructure that is necessary to run an application. This recipe will discover all **metadata.rb** and/or **metadata.json** files that are located in the project's root directory, plus any cookbook directories located under `cookbooks/<project_cookbooks>`.

publish.rb
: Use the **publish.rb** recipe to make any artifact generated by this project available to other phases in the Chef Automate pipeline.

quality.rb
: Use the **quality.rb** recipe to run additional code quality and reporting tools.

security.rb
: Use the **security.rb** recipe to execute security tests against a project's source code.

smoke.rb
: Use the **smoke.rb** recipe to run smoke tests against deployed build artifacts to ensure they were deployed correctly and are minimally functional.

syntax.rb
: Use the **syntax.rb** recipe to verify that changes result in syntactically correct code. This process may involve compiling the code or running a validator for interpreted languages.

unit.rb
: Use the **unit.rb** recipe to run unit tests for the project.

## Create a build-cookbook

Pull the **delivery-truck** and **delivery-sugar** cookbooks into a **build-cookbook**. This requires editing the Berksfile, and then updating the metadata.rb file.

### Edit the Berksfile

The Berksfile for a **build-cookbook** is located at `.delivery/build-cookbook/Berksfile`. Update it to include:

```ruby
source "https://supermarket.chef.io"

metadata

cookbook 'delivery-truck', github: 'chef-cookbooks/delivery-truck'
cookbook 'delivery-sugar', github: 'chef-cookbooks/delivery-sugar'
```

This will ensures that the latest versions of the **delivery-truck** and **delivery-sugar** cookbooks are pulled into the **build-cookbook** every time a change is sent to the Chef Automate project pipeline.

### Edit metadata.rb

The metadata.rb for a **build-cookbook** is located at `.delivery/build-cookbook/metadata.rb`. Update it to include:

```ruby
depends 'delivery-truck'
```

This will ensure that the **build-cookbook** has a dependency on the **delivery-truck** cookbook.

### Add delivery-truck to Recipes

A **build-cookbook** should define the same phases as the recipes included in the **delivery-truck** cookbook: **default.rb**, **deploy.rb**, **functional.rb**, **lint.rb**, **provision.rb**, **publish.rb**, **quality.rb**, **security.rb**, **smoke.rb**, **syntax.rb**, and **unit.rb**.
For example, a build cookbook's recipe directory should contain an identical list of recipes. For example, run:

```bash
$ ls .delivery/build-cookbook/recipes/
```

the list of recipes should be:

```bash
default.rb
deploy.rb
functional.rb
lint.rb
provision.rb
publish.rb
quality.rb
security.rb
smoke.rb
syntax.rb
unit.rb
```

Each recipe corresponds to a specific phase in the Chef Automate pipeline. The recipes in the **build-cookbook** should include the same-named recipe in the **delivery-truck** cookbook.
For example, to include the **lint.rb** recipe from the **delivery-truck** cookbook, update the **lint.rb** recipe in the **build-cookbook** to add the following:

```ruby
include_recipe 'delivery-truck::lint'
```

and then add to the **unit.rb** recipe:

``` ruby
include_recipe 'delivery-truck::unit'
```

...and so on for all of the recipes. This ensures that all of the default
behavior for all of the phases for the entire pipeline is available to
this **build-cookbook**.

## Project Cookbooks

A project cookbook is a cookbook that is located within a project and is used to deploy that project's software onto one (or more) nodes in the Chef Automate pipeline.
These cookbooks are located in the `/cookbooks` directory, which should exist at the root of the project (similar to the `.delivery` directory).

The **default.rb** recipe in a project cookbook is executed by the Chef Infra Client on infrastructure nodes as the project moves through the Chef Automate pipeline.
The **provision.rb** recipe discovers all **metadata.rb** and/or **metadata.json** files in the project, including those under the `/cookbooks` directory.

### Single Cookbook

A project may use a single cookbook to tell the Chef Infra Client how to configure nodes in the Chef Automate pipeline.

### Add Project Cookbook

Create a project cookbook. From the project's root directory, do the following:

1. Create a branch:

    ```bash
    $ delivery checkout BRANCH_NAME
    ```

2. Generate a cookbook under `/cookbooks` in the project directory:

    ```bash
    $ chef generate cookbook PROJECT_NAME
    ```

   Review the **metadata.rb** file. It should be similar to:

    ```ruby
    name 'my_project'
    maintainer 'The Authors'
    maintainer_email 'you@example.com'
    license 'all_rights'
    description 'Installs/Configures my_project'
    long_description 'Installs/Configures my_project'
    version '0.1.0'
    ```

    where `version '0.1.0'` must be changed if files within the cookbook change. The version number is what gets promoted through the stages in the Chef Automate pipeline.

### Configure default.rb

In the **default.rb** recipe, define how this project is to be deployed. This is a normal Chef recipe that is executed by the Chef Infra Client, so do the same in this recipe as you would do in any other.

### Promote the Project

When a change to a project is submitted to Chef Automate, the **provision.rb** does the work of promoting the project to the various nodes in the Chef Automate pipeline.

To submit changes to Chef Automate, use commands similar to:

1. Update to match the working tree:

    ```bash
    $ git add -A
    ```

2. Commit the project:

    ```bash
    $ git commit -m "Let us deploy our app."
    ```

3. Review the changes in Chef Automate:

    ```bash
    $ delivery review
    ```

    This command will open the Chef Automate web UI, and then run unit, lint, and syntax tests. After the tests pass, the change may be approved. Once approved, the **provision.rb** recipe will deploy the project onto the acceptance stage's infrastructure nodes.

4. After the change has built successfully through the Acceptance stage, approve the changes by selecting the **Deliver** button in the Chef Automate web UI. This sends the project to the Union, Rehearsal, and Delivered stages.

### Update the Project

Update a file in the project, and then update the version number in the **metadata.rb** file. This ensures this cookbook is promoted, overwriting the old project cookbook, and then updating the project across each stage of the Chef Automate pipeline:

1. Check out the project from Chef Automate:

    ```bash
    $ delivery checkout master
    ```

1. Create a branch:

    ```bash
    $ delivery checkout BRANCH_NAME
    ```

1. Edit the `version` in the **metadata.rb** file:

    ```ruby
    version '0.2.0'
    ```

    and then make the desired changes.

1. Update to match the working tree:

    ```bash
    $ git add -A
    ```

1. Add a commit message:

    ```bash
    $ git commit -m "Updated our project's code to version 0.2.0."
    ```

1. Review the changes in Chef Automate:

    ```bash
    $ delivery review
    ```

### Multiple Cookbooks

Some projects need more than one project cookbook. Put as many cookbooks as necessary under the `/cookbooks` directory, which is located at the root of a project.

Each cookbook under the `/cookbooks` directory must have a valid cookbook structure. If the cookbook does not have a **metadata.rb** or **metadata.json** file, it will not be discovered by the **provision.rb** recipe.
Consequently, that cookbook will not be used to configure nodes in the Chef Automate pipeline.

The **default.rb** recipes in all project cookbooks are executed by the Chef Infra Client on infrastructure nodes as the project moves through the Chef Automate pipeline.
The **default.rb** recipe in the **build-cookbook** is run first, and then each **default.rb** recipe in each cookbook under `/cookbooks` is run (in alphabetical order, by cookbook name).

## Project Applications

A project may be a binary, a package, or some other set of arbitrary information. The Chef Automate pipeline supports promoting projects through the pipeline using versioned attributes. This is known as a project application.
A project application is a useful way to promote projects by using a set of attributes that are pinned to a specific version, and then using those same versioned attributes when deploying software to various stages in the Chef Automate pipeline.

### Configure Project Application

Project applications are defined in the **publish.rb** recipe in a **build-cookbook** using the `define_project_application` helper method, and then in the **deploy.rb** recipe using the `get_project_application` method.
The publish phase happens at the end of the build stage. It is at this point where the project application version is pinned, uploaded to the Chef Infra Server as a data bag item, and then used through the remaining stages.

The `define_project_application` helper method is available from the **delivery-sugar** cookbook, which is a dependency of the **delivery-truck** cookbook. This helper is available when the **publish.rb** recipe has `include_recipe 'delivery-truck::publish'` defined.

To define a project application, do the following:

1. Open the **publish.rb** recipe in the **build-cookbook** and edit it to
    contain:

    ```ruby
    define_project_application(
      <app_name>,
      <app_version>,
      [ 'attribute',
        'attribute',
        ... ]
    )
    ```

    where

    * `<app_name>` is the name of the project application
    * `<app_version>` is version number to which the project application is pinned
    * `'attribute'` is Hash of attributes associated with this version; each attribute is defined as a key-value pair: `'key = value'`

2. Set up the **build-cookbook** to know about this application. If the `.delivery/build-cookbook/attributes/default.rb` directory and/or file does not exist, create it. Add the following to it:

    ```ruby
    default['delivery']['project_apps'] = ['<app_name>', '<app_name>', ...]
    ```

    where `<app_name>` is a list of one (or more) applications this
    **build-cookbook** should be aware of.

3. Open the **default.rb** recipe in the **build-cookbook** and edit it to
    contain:

    ```ruby
    { 'hash_of_attributes' } = get_project_application(<app_name>)
    ```

    where `'hash_of_attributes'` is a list of one (or more) attributes defined in the `define_project_application` block.

    Do not pass `'id'`, `'version'`, or `'name'` as part of the `'hash_of_attributes'` as these are already defined in the `define_project_application` block, are pulled in automatically by the `get_project_application` helper method, and will overwrite any value specified in the hash.

### Example Project Application

This example shows how to use project applications to deploy a package
into a `.deb` file during the deploy phase. (This example assumes a Chef
Automate project exists with a properly configured **build-cookbook**.)

1. Open the **publish.rb** recipe in the **build-cookbook** and edit to
    look like the following:

    ```ruby
    include_recipe 'delivery-truck::publish'

    # Generate your artifact and document it's location on a download server.
    artifact_location = <generated_artifact_location>

    # It's recommended to generate a checksum from your package too.
    artifact_checksum = <package_checksum>

    # Version the artifact based on the current date.
    artifact_version = Time.now.strftime('%F_%H%M')

    # Name your application.
    name = "<app_name>"

    project_app_attributes = {
      'artifact_location' => artifact_location,
      'artifact_checksum' => artifact_checksum
    }

    define_project_application(
      name,
      artifact_version,
      project_app_attributes
    )
    ```

2. In the **publish.rb** recipe, update `<generated_artifact_location>` and `<package_checksum>` to be correct for this project.
3. Set up the **build-cookbook** to know about this application. Add the following to `.delivery/build-cookbook/attributes/default.rb`:

    ```ruby
    default['delivery']['project_apps'] = ["<app_name>"]
    ```

    where `<app_name>` is the same value as the name of the application in the **publish.rb** file.
    When the publish phase is run, an application is created, versioned by timestamp, and including all of the information needed to install that version of the application. The provisioning code in **delivery-truck** will automatically pin based on this version.

1. Configure the **build-cookbook** to know how to install the application. Add the following to `.delivery/build-cookbook/deploy.rb`:

    ```ruby
    app_attributes = get_project_application("<APPLICATION_NAME>")

    # Download your package.
    remote_file "/tmp/latest_package.deb" do
      source   app_attributes['artifact_location']
      checksum app_attributes['artifact_checksum']
      action :create
    end

    # Install it onto your build infrastructure.
    package app_attributes['name'] do
      source "/tmp/latest_package.deb"
      action :install
    end
    ```

## Validate the Installation

The surest way to validate a Chef Automate installation is to create a
cookbook, and then submit it to Chef Automate to kick off a new build in
the pipeline.

If a project is a cookbook, we recommend starting with **delivery-truck**,
an open source build cookbook created for driving cookbook pipelines in
Chef Automate. You can customize some aspects of **delivery-truck**
through your project's `.delivery/config.json`. To have more control or
to opt-out of some of the behavior of **delivery-truck**, create a wrapper
build cookbook.

This topic describes the recommended setup for a Chef cookbook project
using Chef Automate.

The following example shows how to create a cookbook, with project and
pipeline, configure it to be built with Chef Automate, and then imported
it into Chef Automate itself. From your workstation as user with admin
privileges on the Chef Automate server, do the following:

1. Make a working directory (`workspace` in the example):

    ```bash
    $ mkdir ~/workspace && cd ~/workspace
    ```

1. Setup the Delivery CLI to, by default, contact the Chef Automate server at SERVER, with a default ENTERPRISE and ORGANIZATION:

    ```bash
    $ delivery setup --server=SERVER --ent=ENTERPRISE --org=ORGANIZATION --user=USERNAME
    ```

    {{< note >}}
    The server, enterprise, organization, and user must already exist.
    {{< /note >}}

1. Create a cookbook, then navigate into it:

    ```bash
    $ chef generate cookbook NEW-COOKBOOK-NAME
    $ cd NEW-COOKBOOK-NAME
    ```

    This uses the Chef development kit to generate a new cookbook, including a default recipe and default ChefSpec tests.

1. Create an initial commit (use `git status` to verify the change) on
    the "master" branch:

    ```bash
    $ git add .
    ```

    ```bash
    $ git commit -m 'Initial Commit'
    ```

    Running `chef generate` initialized a git repository automatically for this cookbook. If you created the build cookbook manually, initialize the git repository with the `git init` command.

1. Initialize the cookbook for Chef Automate:

    ```bash
    $ delivery init
    ```

    This creates a new project in Chef Automate, pushes the master branch, creates a feature branch, generates a default Chef Automate project configuration file, pushes the first change for review, and then opens a browser window that shows the change.

1. Now that you have initialized your project, it is recommended that you integrate the **delivery-truck** cookbook with your project. Delivery Truck can ensure good build cookbook behavior as well as provide you with recipes already set up to test your project cookbooks and applications.

## Using **delivery-truck** in air-gapped environment

Chef Automate can be set up to deploy cookbooks and applications in an
air-gapped environment and this section describes how to set up a basic
cookbook to be delivered through Chef Automate using the [delivery-truck
cookbook](https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/delivery-truck) in that
environment.

By default, the **delivery-truck** cookbook is configured for use with Chef
Automate-backed cookbook projects.

### Prerequisites

* Ensure you have a private Supermarket installed, setup, and running. See [Install Private Supermarket](/install_supermarket.html) for more information.
* Ensure you have a Chef Infra Server with the Chef Identity authentication/authorization service configured, a Chef Automate server setup that references your private Supermarket, and at least one Chef Automate build node/runner installed, setup, and running. See [Install Chef Automate](/install_chef_automate.html) and [Chef Identity](/install_supermarket.html#chef-identity.html) for more information.
* Ensure you have created a project in Chef Automate. Follow these instructions to [Set Up Projects](/delivery_build_cookbook.html#set-up-projects).
* Ensure you have [ChefDK](https://downloads.chef.io/chefdk/) installed on your workstation.

### Share cookbooks with your private Supermarket

To use **delivery-truck** and its dependency, **delivery-sugar**, you must
first share them with a private Supermarket that is authenticated with
your Chef Infra Server.

1. From a workstation, create a cookbooks directory, `$COOKBOOKS_DIR`:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p $COOKBOOKS_DIR
    ```

1. Clone the **delivery-truck** cookbook and its dependency `deliver-sugar` from GitHub:

    ```bash
    cd $COOKBOOKS_DIR
    git clone https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/delivery-sugar.git
    git clone https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/delivery-truck.git
    ```

1. To ensure your private Supermarket does not try to connect to third-party services, log into it and set the `AIR_GAPPED` environment variable to `'true'` in the `/etc/supermarket/supermarket.rb` file.

    ```ruby
    default['supermarket']['air_gapped'] = 'true'
    ```

1. Save your changes and close the file.
1. Reconfigure your private Supermarket.

    ```bash
    supermarket-ctl reconfigure
    ```

1. Share the **delivery-truck** and **delivery-sugar** cookbooks with your private Supermarket using the `knife` command-line tool. If you have not configured `knife` to share cookbooks with your private Supermarket, see [Upload a Cookbook](/supermarket.html#upload-a-cookbook) before running the following `knife` subcommands.

    ```bash
    knife supermarket share 'delivery-truck'
    knife supermarket share 'delivery-sugar'
    ```

### Generate a cookbook

1. Use Chef Workstation's [cookbook generator
    command](/ctl_chef.html#chef-generate-cookbook) to create a default
    cookbook directory structure called `my_cookbook`.

    ```bash
    chef generate cookbook my_cookbook
    ```

2. Run `delivery init` in your `my_cookbook` local directory to create
    a new project in Chef Automate and push your first change for
    review.

    ```bash
    cd my_cookbook
    delivery init
    ```

3. Finally, check out the added files and commit your changes.

### Use the **delivery-truck** cookbook in your project

From the root of your project's directory, do the following:

1. Modify the build cookbook's Berksfile to reference **delivery-truck**
    and **delivery-sugar**. By default, this file is located at
    `.delivery/build-cookbook/Berksfile`.

    ```ruby
    source 'https://your_private_supermarket_url'

    metadata

    group :delivery do
      cookbook 'delivery-sugar'
      cookbook 'delivery-truck'
    end
    ```

2. Modify the build cookbook's metadata to include **delivery-truck**.
    By default, this file is located at
    `.delivery/build-cookbook/metadata.rb`.

    ```ruby
    depends 'delivery-truck'
    ```

3. Edit your build cookbook's recipes to include the corresponding
    **delivery-truck** recipe.

    ``` ruby
    # Cookbook Name:: $BUILD_COOKBOOK_NAME
    # Recipe:: $RECIPE
    #
    # Copyright (c) 2016 The Authors, All Rights Reserved.

    include_recipe "delivery-truck::$RECIPE"
    ```

    By default, each build cookbook recipe `$RECIPE` is located at
    `.delivery/build-cookbook/recipes/$RECIPE.rb`.

4. Increment your build cookbook's version in the cookbook's metadata
    file.
5. Commit your changes and run `delivery review`. Changes to your
    cookbook project can now be managed by your Chef Automate cluster.
