+++
title = "Log Files"
draft = false

aliases = ["/server_logs.html"]

runbook_weight = 20

[menu]
  [menu.infra]
    title = "Log Files"
    identifier = "chef_infra/managing_chef_infra_server/server_logs.md Log Files"
    parent = "chef_infra/managing_chef_infra_server"
    weight = 60
+++

[\[edit on GitHub\]](https://github.com/chef/chef-web-docs/blob/master/content/runbook/server_logs.md)

All logs generated by the Chef Infra Server can be found in
`/var/log/opscode`. Each service enabled on the system also has a
sub-directory in which service-specific logs are located, typically
found in `/var/log/opscode/service_name`.

## View Log Files

The Chef Infra Server has built-in support for easily tailing the logs
that are generated. To view all the logs being generated on the Chef
Infra Server, enter the following command:

``` bash
chef-server-ctl tail
```

To view logs for a specific service:

``` bash
chef-server-ctl tail SERVICENAME
```

where `SERVICENAME` should be replaced with name of the service for
which log files will be viewed.

Another way to view log files is to use the system utility tail:

``` bash
tail -50f /var/log/chef-server/opscode-chef/current
```

### tail Log Files

{{% ctl_chef_server_tail %}}

Another common approach to tailing the log files for a service is to use
the system utility `tail`. For example:

``` bash
tail -50f /var/log/opscode/opscode-chef/current
```

## Supervisor

Supervisor logs are created and managed directly by the service
supervisor, and are automatically rotated when the current log file
reaches 1,000,000 bytes. 10 log files are kept. The latest supervisor
log is always located in `/var/log/chef-server/service_name/current` and
rotated logs have a filename starting with `@` followed by a precise
`tai64n` timestamp based on when the file was rotated.

Supervisor logs are available for the following services:

-   bifrost
-   bookshelf
-   nginx
-   opscode-erchef
-   opscode-expander
-   opscode-expander-reindexer
-   opscode-solr4
-   postgresql
-   rabbitmq
-   redis

### nginx, access

Nginx is an important entry point for data on the Chef Infra Server,
which means that debugging efforts frequently start with analyzing the
**nginx** service's `access.log` file. This log contains every HTTP
request made to the front-end machine and can be very useful when
investigating request rates and usage patterns. The following is an
example log entry:

``` none
175.185.9.6 - - [12/Jul/2013:15:56:54 +0000] "GET
/organizations/exampleorg/data/firewall/nova_api HTTP/1.1" 200
"0.850" 452 "-" "Chef Client/0.10.2 (ruby-1.8.7-p302; ohai-0.6.4;
x86_64-linux; +http://opscode.com)" "127.0.0.1:9460" "200"
"0.849" "0.10.2" "version=1.0" "some_node.example.com"
"2013-07-12T15:56:40Z" "2jmj7l5rSw0yVb/vlWAYkK/YBwk=" 985
```

where important fields in this log include:

-   The HTTP status code (`200`)
-   The IP address of the requesting client (`175.185.9.6`)
-   The timestamp (`[12/Jul/2013:15:56:54 +0000]`)
-   The total request time (`"0.850"`)
-   The request method (`GET`)
-   The request URL (`/organizations/exampleorg/data/firewall/nova_api`)

### opscode-erchef, current

The **opscode-erchef** service's `current.log` file contains a history
of stack traces from major application crashes.

### opscode-erchef, erchef

The **opscode-erchef** service's `erchef.log` file contains a history of
API requests that have been processed by Erchef. These logs can be
rotated quickly, therefore it is generally best to sort them by date,
and then find the most recently updated log file:

``` bash
ls -lrt /var/log/opscode/opscode-erchef/erchef.log.*
```

The following is an example log entry:

``` none
2013-08-06T08:54:32Z erchef@127.0.0.1 INFO org_name=srwjedoqqoypgmvafmoi; req_id=g3IAA2QAEGVyY2hlZkAx
```

where important fields in this log include:

-   The HTTP method (`POST`)
-   The HTTP path (`/organizations/srwjedoqqoypgmvafmoi/environments`)
-   The message (`{created,<<"_default">>}`)
-   The organization name (`org_name=srwjedoqqoypgmvafmoi`)
-   The timestamp (`2013-08-06T08:54:32Z`)
-   The name of the user and/or Chef Infra Client which made the request
    (`pivotal`)

In addition, the log file may contain additional entries that detail the
amounts of time spent interacting with other services:

-   `rdbms_time` (the time spent talking to the **postgresql** service)
-   `req_time` (the request time)
-   `solr_time` (the time spent talking to the **opscode-solr** service)

## Application

Application logs are created by the services directly, and may require
log rotation policies to be applied based on organizational goals and
the platform(s) on which the services are running.

### nginx

The `nginx` service creates both supervisor and administrator logs. The
administrator logs contain both access and error logs for each virtual
host utilized by the Chef Infra Server. Each of the following logs
require external log rotation.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 12%" />
<col style="width: 87%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Logs</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/access.log</code></td>
<td>The Web UI and API HTTP access logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/error.log</code></td>
<td>The Web UI and API HTTP error logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-account.access.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-account</code> internal load-balancer access logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-account.error.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-account</code> internal load-balancer error logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-authz.access.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-authz</code> internal load-balancer access logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-authz.error.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-authz</code> internal load-balancer error logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-chef.access.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-chef</code> and <code>opscode-erchef</code> internal load-balancer access logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/internal-chef.error.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>opscode-chef</code> and <code>opscode-erchef</code> internal load-balancer error logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/nagios.access.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>nagios</code> access logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/nagios.error.log</code></td>
<td>The <code>nagios</code> error logs.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/var/log/opscode/nginx/rewrite-port-80.log</code></td>
<td>The rewrite logs for traffic that uses HTTP instead of HTTPS.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

{{% server_services_nginx_tail %}}

#### Read Log Files

The **nginx** access log format is as follows:

``` bash
log_format opscode '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local]  '
  '"$request" $status "$request_time" $body_bytes_sent '
  '"$http_referrer" "$http_user_agent" "$upstream_addr" '
  '"$upstream_status" "$upstream_response_time" "$http_x_chef_version" '
  '"$http_x_ops_sign" "$http_x_ops_userid" "$http_x_ops_timestamp" '
   '"$http_x_ops_content_hash" $request_length';
```

A sample log line:

``` bash
192.0.2.0 - - [17/Feb/2012:16:02:42 -0800]
  "GET /organizations/nginx/cookbooks HTTP/1.1" 200
  "0.346" 12 "-"
  "Chef Knife/0.10.4 (ruby-1.9.3-p0;
                      ohai-0.6.10;
                      x86_64-darwin11.2.0;
                      +http://opscode.com
                      )"
  "127.0.0.1:9460" "200" "0.339" "0.10.4"
  "version=1.0" "adam" "2012-02-18T00:02:42Z"
  "2jmj7l5rSw0yVb/vlWAYkK/YBwk=" 871
```

Field descriptions:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 12%" />
<col style="width: 87%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Field</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$remote_addr</code></td>
<td>The IP address of the client who made this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$remote_user</code></td>
<td>The HTTP basic auth user name of this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$time_local</code></td>
<td>The local time of the request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$request</code></td>
<td>The HTTP request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$status</code></td>
<td>The HTTP status code.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$request_time</code></td>
<td>The time it took to service the request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$body_bytes_sent</code></td>
<td>The number of bytes in the HTTP response body.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$http_referrer</code></td>
<td>The HTTP referrer.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$http_user_agent</code></td>
<td>The user agent of the requesting client.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$upstream_addr</code></td>
<td>The upstream reverse proxy used to service this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$upstream_status</code></td>
<td>The upstream reverse proxy response status code.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$upstream_response_time</code></td>
<td>The upstream reverse proxy response time.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$http_x_chef_version</code></td>
<td>The version of Chef used to make this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$http_x_ops_sign</code></td>
<td>The version of the authentication protocol.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$http_x_ops_userid</code></td>
<td>The client name that was used to sign this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$http_x_ops_timestamp</code></td>
<td>The timestamp from when this request was signed.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>$http_x_ops_content_hash</code></td>
<td>The hash of the contents of this request.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>$request_length</code></td>
<td>The length of this request.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
